---
layout: default
title:  "Levitation"
date:   2018-03-23
category: "Writings"
---
As a child, I was often awakened from deep sleep—nearly always devoid of dreams—by a sensation that had become quite familiar to my young self dating back to the time of my earliest memories. The sensation was unmistakably that of my entire body, all at once slamming against my mattress after a fall from some unknown height above my bed, the sound of the loose springs rattling off the walls of my tiny bedroom from the impact, my eyelids testing their extremes as I attempted to get my wits about me. I had been hovering above the surface of the bed prior to the unwelcome crash, that much was clear, but several questions plagued me: how high off the bed was my body at the apex, how long had I remained suspended above the bed, and what was the cause of my fall? Night after night, as I drifted off I had attempted to take notice of whether I had any awareness of floating up off of my mattress to no avail, but all too often I would start awake to that _thud_. Careful consideration had been put to seeking the advice of an adult on the matter, though I opted against such a measure in order to spare myself some inevitable embarrassment, believing that there were only two possible outcomes and neither were in my favour. Either levitation during sleep was as natural and common as sleep itself and my inquiring into the particulars of it would make me seem a fool who is many years late in discovering this routine aspect of human life, or my midnight jolts were such an uncommon occurrence that to raise questions—even if framed in some hypothetical manner—would have called into question my very sanity. I resolved to keep my situation and the questions that surrounded it to myself and set out to design an experiment in hopes of shedding some light on my uncertainties. Using what seemed at the time to be a most complex system—quite ingenious to my naive young mind in fact—I aimed to solve two of the three mysteries, those concerning the height and the duration of my levitation; the mystery of the cause of my fall seemed a different matter entirely. The makeshift device was a primitive pseudo-mechanical contraption made up of: lengths of string found in a kitchen cupboard, wire hangers stolen one afternoon from the coat closet, an antique watch that had belonged to my late grandfather, two rolls of scotch tape, three different coloured sticks of blackboard chalk, a silver marble in a small bag of yellowish cloth, and several metal washers of assorted sizes and weights. Working in secret with my bedroom door closed, I designed it to be easily slid underneath the bed for concealment during waking hours, and quickly lifted into place once I was sure the adults were convinced I was fast asleep and my work would be undisturbed. The plan was that as my sleeping body began to levitate, it would nudge the marble which was suspended just above me, this would trip a wire which would in turn cause the watch to start a timer. I would be able to check the elapsed time on the watch upon jolting awake to get a sense of how long I had spent in the air. Three other strings would be suspended at heights of increasing interval directly above me, each with a piece of coloured chalk tied to the end. Trace amounts of chalk left on my white pajamas would give indication to how high I had risen. Because I didn’t experience the falling sensation every single night, I had anticipated that it would take some time to come to any formal conclusions. During the first week, I’d anxiously wait alone in the darkness of my room until the house fell sufficiently quiet, then spring into action setting up my system, which stretched from bedpost to bedpost like some clumsy spiderweb weighted down with far too much kill. Mechanical failures plagued me in the beginning. A string would snap, a wire hanger would bend, something would come loose. By the second week most of the obvious kinks had been worked out and my tests on the various parts of the system showed everything to be in sufficient working order. During two—possibly three—nights that week I woke to the familiar jolt as I crashed down onto my small single bed. With speed I would rush to switch on the light, but was disheartened to find neither chalk marks upon my pajamas nor a running timer on the watch—it hadn’t worked. One morning I discovered a dusting of chalk across my chest, my little heart began to beat fast with excitement until my joy was dashed upon the realization that a stick of chalk had fallen from its sling onto the bed during the night. The third week was spent making height adjustments to the entire device—perhaps I was not levitating nearly as high as I had estimated based upon the impact of the falls. Yet, no matter how much I lowered it, the system failed to produce any results. As time wore on, I began having fewer and fewer experiences of awakening from a fall. What was at one time a common occurrence had become something of a rarity in those weeks. Was it natural for the frequency of levitation experiences to decline as one aged or had the presence of the haphazard machine subconsciously prevented my body from entering the airborne state of its sleep cycle. Was that state perhaps so secretive, so mysterious, and so aware that it would not permit itself to be studied—to be known? After six or seven weeks of mishaps, disappointments, and inadequate data, the machine was retired and unceremoniously dumped into some dark corner of my bedroom closet. Time covered it with discarded clothing, stacks of paper, and never-again-seen toys. Whether or not my body had stopped levitating entirely, or simply stopped falling and thrusting itself into a waking state during my levitation remains unknown to me even now. I had either moved on from it, or perfected it, the effect on my life was the same in any case. I haven’t awaken to the sensation since, though I think of it often; I hope that my children will be comfortable and secure enough to approach my with questions about their own levitation experiences.
